---
title: API Reference

language_tabs:
  - shell
  - objective_c: obj-c
  - swift
  - java
  - ruby
  - python
  - csharp: C#

toc_footers:
  - <a href='http://frac.as/'>Sign Up for a Developer Key</a>
  - <a href='http://github.com/tripit/slate'>Documentation Powered by Slate</a>

includes:
  - errors

search: true
---

# Introduction

The [Frac.as](https://frac.as/) Client API lets you sync your users' app settings across devices.  

We have [Client Libraries]() available for download in Objective-C, Swift, Java and C#, which should be enough to get you up and running on most mobile platforms.  
We've also included inst' language bindings in Shell, Ruby, and Python! You can view code examples in the dark area to the right, and you can switch the programming language of the examples with the tabs in the top right.

This example API documentation page was created with [Slate](http://github.com/tripit/slate). Feel free to edit it and use it as a base for your own API's documentation.

# Common Parameters

With few exceptions, every call to the Fracas API should include the same three parameters.
This makes it easy to use a client library, as most endpoint calls require no additional information.

### Query Parameters

Parameter | Description
--------- | -----------
publickey | A valid public key associated with your account
appkey | The App Key for your project
deviceid | A temporarily-unique identifier generated by the device, as described in [DeviceIDs](#deviceids).  
devicekey | (optional) A guaranteed unique identifier, returned by an [AddDevice](#adddevice) API call

Once known, DeviceKey should be used in place of DeviceID.  If DeviceKey is specified, DeviceID is not required and will be ignored if supplied.

## DeviceIDs

Two methods are available to identify a user device: DeviceID and DeviceKey.  
The simple distinction between the two is that DeviceID is generated by the device itself, while DeviceKey is assigned by the Fracas API.
In general, you should use DeviceKey whenever it is available, relying on DeviceID only when the device has not yet been connected to 
a Fracas APP, and therefore has not yet had a DeviceKey assigned.

### DeviceID

A DeviceID may be any string that uniquely identifies a single device.  Generally, it should be an identifier provided by the platform API, 
such as iOS' identifierForAdvertising or Android's Settings.Secure#ANDROID_ID.  Failing that, a temporarily unique string such as a MAC address
will work nicely.

Ideally a DeviceID should be something that will never change for a device, though in practice it need only survive long enough for the
device to be connected to your app and receive a DeviceKey from the API.

### DeviceKey

A DeviceKey is generated by the Fracas API as part of the [AddDevice](#adddevice) API call.
It is guaranteed unique, and should be stored on the device and used for subsequent API calls once known.

<aside class="notice">
DeviceKey always trumps DeviceID if both are supplied in an API call.
</aside>

# Client Endpoints

## GetDeviceStatus

```objective_c
require 'kittn'

api = Kittn::APIClient.authorize!('meowmeowmeow')
api.kittens.get
```

```swift
import kittn

api = kittn.authorize('meowmeowmeow')
api.kittens.get()
```

```shell
curl "https://api.frac.as/v1/getdevicestatus" \
	-d publickey=pub_YOUR_PUBLIC_KEY \
	-d appkey=app_YOUR_APP_KEY \
	-d deviceid=USER_DEVICE_UDID

UNKNOWN
```

```csharp
using Fracas.Client

var client = new FracasClient("api_123456", "app_234567");
var deviceID = client.GetDeviceID();
var result = client.GetDeviceStatus(deviceID);
```


This endpoint retrieves the connection status of the specified device.

### HTTP Request

`GET https://api.frac.as/api/GetDeviceStatus`

### Query Parameters

Parameter | Description
--------- | -----------
publickey | A valid public key associated with your account
projectid | The id for the project
deviceid | The unique identifier for the device, as described in [DeviceIDs](#deviceids)

### Device Status Codes

Code | Description
---- | -----------
Unknown | This device has never before been seen, or is not associated with any devices connected to the specified project..
AutoConnectable | This device has previously been connected to a device running the specified project.  It may be connected to this project without further user intervention.
Connected | This device has been successfully connected to this project.

<aside class="success">
Remember — a happy kitten is an authenticated kitten!
</aside>

## Get a Specific Kitten

```ruby
require 'kittn'

api = Kittn::APIClient.authorize!('meowmeowmeow')
api.kittens.get(2)
```

```python
import kittn

api = kittn.authorize('meowmeowmeow')
api.kittens.get(2)
```

```shell
curl "http://example.com/api/kittens/3"
-H "Authorization: meowmeowmeow"
```

```c#
using Fracas.Client

var client = new FracasClient("api_123456", "app_234567");
var result = client.Get
curl "http://example.com/api/kittens/3"
-H "Authorization: meowmeowmeow"
```

> The above command returns JSON structured like this:

```json
{
  "id": 2,
  "name": "Isis",
  "breed": "unknown",
  "fluffiness": 5,
  "cuteness": 10
}
```


This endpoint retrieves a specific kitten.

<aside class="warning">If you're not using an administrator API key, note that some kittens will return 403 Forbidden if they are hidden for admins only.</aside>

### HTTP Request

`GET http://example.com/kittens/<ID>`

### URL Parameters

Parameter | Description
--------- | -----------
ID | The ID of the cat to retrieve

